+++
# Date this page was created.
date = "2017-06-07"

# Project title.
title = "1D Materials"

# Project summary to display on homepage.
summary = "Carbon peapods | Collapsed carbon nanotubes"

# Optional image to display on homepage (relative to `static/img/` folder).
image_preview = "peapods.png"

# Tags: can be used for filtering projects.
# Example: `tags = ["machine-learning", "deep-learning"]`
tags = ["1D", "porous"]

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link = ""

# Does the project detail page use math formatting?
math = true

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = "headers/peapods_wide.jpg"
caption = "Carbon peapods, a model 1D system"

+++

<!-- MarkdownTOC -->

- [Collapsed nanotubes of large diameter: a new model 1D system](#collapsed-nanotubes-of-large-diameter-a-new-model-1d-system)
- [Carbon nanotubes under extreme pressure](#carbon-nanotubes-under-extreme-pressure)
- [Carbon peapods](#carbon-peapods)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->


### Collapsed nanotubes of large diameter: a new model 1D system
More details soon!

### Carbon nanotubes under extreme pressure
More details soon!

### Carbon peapods
My PhD research was focused on the study of the one-dimensional (1D) system that are the carbon nano-peapods. During my work, I primarily used inelastic neutron scattering and x-ray diffraction in order to investigate the structure and dynamics of this system. 
At the beginning of my thesis, I spent three months in Tsukuba, Japan, with Dr. Hiromichi Kataura. There, I learned from the best his method to produce ultra-pure peapods – pure in the neutron sense, i.e. without hydrogen impurities – method that I used to produce large quantities of 2D oriented C$\_{60}$ and C$\_{70}$ peapods.
Thanks to the 2D orientation of the samples, we could separate the translational part of the inelastic response of the spectra, which allowed us to finely study the translational motion of the fullerenes. Then, by studying the inter-fullerene distance, the fullerenes rotation and translations from 2 K up to 1200 K – an unprecedented large temperature domain of stability for 1D systems – I highlighted the true crystalline behavior of the fullerene chains at room temperature, the melting of these chains at high temperature, and the orientational ordering of the fullerenes at low temperature. Quite a lot of phase transitions for a 1D system! 
